Throughput Documentation Update (#6611)
Particular/docs.particular.net: servicepulse/usage.md

---
title: Usage
summary: Use ServicePulse to view and measure the usage of an NServiceBus system.
component: ServicePulse
reviewed: 2024-05-08
related:
  - nservicebus/usage
---

This page allows for viewing the endpoint usage summary of a system using NServiceBus.
A usage report can be downloaded here at license renewal time.

> Usage page requires ServicePulse version 1.39 or later, and ServiceControl version 5.3 or later.

Author: This is not visible enough to the customer - gets lost on the page.
The note made it stand out.

---
title: Usage
summary: Use ServicePulse to view and measure the usage of an NServiceBus system.
component: ServicePulse
reviewed: 2024-05-08
related:
  - nservicebus/usage
---

This section allows for viewing the endpoint usage summary of a system using NServiceBus.
A usage report can be generated here at license renewal time.

> [!NOTE]
> The usage data collection functionality requires ServicePulse version 1.39 or later, and ServiceControl version 5.3 or later.

> [!NOTE]
> If no data is available, go to the [Usage Setup](usage-config.md) screen to diagnose connection problems.

## Generating a usage report

> Clicking `Generate Report` generates a usage report file with the detected [endpoints](#viewing-usage-summary-detected-endpoints) and [queues](#viewing-usage-summary-detected-broker-queues). The report includes the [endpoint type](#setting-an-endpoint-type) selections made on screen, and any specified [words to mask](usage-config.md#report-masks) with be obfuscated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click `Generate Report` to generate a usage report file with the detected [endpoints](#viewing-usage-summary-detected-endpoints) and [queues](#viewing-usage-summary-detected-broker-queues). The report includes the [endpoint type](#setting-an-endpoint-type) selections made on screen, and any specified [words to mask](usage-config.md#report-masks) will be obfuscated.
```

> The report **will not** be automatically uploaded or sent to Particular - it is a JSON file that needs to be provided to Particular upon request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The report **will not** be automatically uploaded or sent to Particular - it is a JSON file that can be provided to Particular upon request.
```

Author: I believe our eula says that the customer must provide a report when asked - it's not an option if the customer is able to generate one.

Reviewer: In that case, I'll fall back to a personal preference:

```suggestion
The report **will not** be automatically uploaded or sent to Particular - it is a JSON file that must be provided to Particular upon request.
```

## Viewing usage summary

At any time the system usage can be viewed on the Usage page. It is divided into two sections:

- [Detected endpoints](#viewing-usage-summary-detected-endpoints)
- [Detected broker queues](#viewing-usage-summary-detected-broker-queues)

> For each endpoint and queue, the maximum daily throughput is displayed. This can be helpful in seeing how the system is growing over time, and hence getting an understanding of which [tier](https://particular.net/pricing) the endpoint belongs to for licensing purposes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each endpoint and queue, the maximum daily throughput is displayed. This can be helpful to see how the system is changing over time, and hence get an understanding of which [tier](https://particular.net/pricing) the endpoint belongs to for licensing purposes.
```

### Detected endpoints

Detected endpoints are those identified by the system as NServiceBus endpoints and are included in usage report for NServiceBus licensing purposes. There is an option to set the endpoint type if there is a valid reason as to why it should not be included in the licensing calculations. Any changes made to the endpoint type are automatically saved.

### Detected broker queues

> This option will not be displayed if the using a non-broker transport.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This option will not be displayed for non-broker transports (e.g. MSMQ and Azure Storage Queues).
```

If the system is using an [NServiceBus transport](./../transports) that allows querying of metrics, then any queues detected on the broker that cannot be automatically identified as NServiceBus endpoints will be listed in the `Detected Broker Queues` tab. These queues will be included in the usage report for NServiceBus licensing purposes.

## Setting an endpoint type

The usage summary may contain detected queues that should not be counted as part of a license with Particular Software.

Once a report is submitted to Particular, it is reviewed and any system queues that should not be counted for licensing purposes are removed.

In addition, the detected endpoints and queues screen provides an option to set the endpoint type, which provides a reason as to why a queue should not be included in the licensing calculations. Any changes made to the endpoint type are automatically saved.

### Bulk endpoint updates

> If multiple endpoints or queues matching a certain naming pattern need to be set to an endpoint type, then this can be done in bulk using the filter option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If multiple endpoints or queues matching a certain naming pattern need to be set to an endpoint type, this can be done in bulk using the filter option.
```

### Detected broker queues

> This option will not be displayed for non-broker transports.

Author: Why would we not provide an example? We said customers don't know what things are, so this straight away tells them if they fall into this bucket or not.
